# Smart-Parking-Management
Introduction: -
The effective management of parking spots has emerged as a critical concern in the face of growing urbanization. The dynamic demands of urban areas are frequently not met by traditional parking systems, which causes traffic jams, time wastage, and environmental issues. The emergence of Machine Learning (ML) technology offers a new approach to tackling these issues, with the possibility of developing a Smart Parking Management System that is more perceptive and cleverer.1} Traffic on roads is a serious problem. But when it comes to managing such traffic, especially in parking lots, it becomes more difficult and chaotic. A lot of manpower is required to manage and monitor vehicles. Parking lot management, i.e. allocating slots to vehicles is a tedious task. Real-time data is typically produced by smart parking systems to help drivers make more informed decisions about where to park right now. 2} New York City, 45% of the traffic generated from the automobile circulation for searching for parking spots cause several problems, such as traffic congestion, air pollution, and wasted energy. According to a study by, in the US nearly 42% of people miss their appointments due to the circulation for parking, another 34% abandoned their trips by being frustrated from parking issues and, in New York, a driver must waste 107 h annually for searching for a parking spot. Not all systems, meanwhile, make use of machine learning, which expands on real-time data by enabling forecasts regarding parking availability in the future, so enabling more effective forward planning. The machine learning and system-independent data features of smart parking systems are the main topics of this work. Since all smart parking systems produce data, they can all potentially improve the system's usefulness by applying machine learning algorithms to this data.3} One of the biggest issues facing the world's largest cities is traffic congestion brought on by increased competition for the few parking spots available. To address this issue, research has been done on a smart parking application that uses machine learning algorithms to forecast future rates of car parking occupancy at Charles Sturt University (CSU)'s Port Macquarie campus in Australia. So, when planning to visit a public location, such as a mall, users can examine the volume of traffic during a specific hour and then determine whether to reserve a slot in advance.

# Problem statement: -
Ineffective parking management is an important factor in traffic jams and pollution in a rapid urbanization cities
The challenge lies in developing a machine learning-driven smart parking solution that optimizes parking space utilization, reduces search time for parking, lowers carbon emissions, and enhances the overall urban living experience
# credit to members: -
# Jayesh vala:
Data preprocessing and cleaning, Exploratory data analysis, and model making, evaluating model.
# Bijna chandera: 
references, ppt making, gantt chart, literature reviews, model making.
# naveen reddy: 
refrences, ppt making, model making, evaluting model.
